Look at IP version 6 routing protocols.
Now a lot of the routing protocols you've seen in conversion for have been updated for IP version 6
version 6 uses a different address structure.
So the key version for writing protocols cannot be used in IP version 6.
The updated versions of the routing protocols need to be used.
Now some examples I Version 6 routing types include static routes and I'll show you a little bit later
how to set up static routes.
I'm also going to show you how to set up rip in G or next generation which is essentially REPP in October
and 6.
Now if I were you I would remember the various routing protocols listed here.
Don't worry too much about the Archies.
Put them here for completeness.
If you really want to get into the depth of the routing protocols have a look at these or it sees OSPF
version 3 is a version of OSPF that supports IP version 6.
We also have ISIS for IPV 6 as well as a multi protocol BGP version for multi protocol BGP essentially
supports multiple protocols including IP version for IP version 6 and VPN before use in NPL environments.
The thing to remember is multi protocol BGP version 4 is the BGP version used in IPV six environments.
The GOP is also being updated.
So we have the GOP for IP version 6.
It's important that you remember this command in global configuration mode on a router you need to tap
the C'mon IPV six unicast cost routing before you can enable any routing protocols on that router.
So just to demonstrate that he has a router saying Global config mode I'm going to type IPV six Rodda
and let's try an enable rep.
And now an IP version 6 you need to specify a string to identify the reprocess.
Let's just say RIP.
And notice it says IP B-6 routing is not enabled.
So I have to type IP V-6 unique cause routing and now I can tap the came on ITV 6 herad a rep with a
string.
So please don't forget you need to top the common IP V-6 unicast routing before enabling a routing protocol
that supports IP version 6 on Cisco routers.
Now rip N-G is very similar to repped in IP version for it's a distance vector routing protocol.
It has a radius of 15 hops 16 is set to infinity.
It still use a split horizon poison reverse and it's based very much on repletion too.
In other words the version of REPP used an IP version for environments.
There have been updates.
It obviously needs to support the IP B-6 Prefect's.
In other words support IPV six addresses next Hoppa addresses are set to the IP V-6 address because
we could run a network entirely using IP version 6 with no IP version for now it uses a multicast group
of 5 0 to Colin Kurla 9 which is the all the routers multi-course group that is the multicast address
used for rep updates.
In reply one if you remember Ripp sains updates using broadcasts broadcasts are no longer supported
in IP version 6.
So they cannot be used broadcast also have some inherent disadvantages which we've covered previously.
Reversion to uses multicast address 2 2 4 0 0 9.
So one of the well-known multi-course addresses and you can see this address is very similar to version
2 and version 2 it's 2 2 4 0 0 9.
In other words that's the multi-course address used in IP version for encrypt N-G in IP version 6 we
use multicast address F-0 to call uncolored 9.
So let's say some consistency in the multicast group number IP version 6 is used for the transport of
Ripp updates.
REP.
N-G since updates on UDP port five to one that's an able rep G or next generation on these routers saying
global config mode I can tap IP V-6 Varada rather.
And then I need to specify a string to identify this process.
So I'm just going to call it in G.
And you can see that I'm now in can figure out a mode of I need to go into my interfaces and top IPV
6 Ripp the process name and then top enable and I can do that on each interface.
You don't have to do this command first but that will allow you to change various parameters.
I can do the same thing on rockety the top IPV six Rodda rip
will just change this to ngi too.
Because this is on route to go to my interface's
and we've now enabled REPP back in Rodda.
One can top the C'mon show.
IPV 6 rocks to see my writing table and after a while I should see my rip roots populate in the writing
table.
So knock and talk.
Ping 2001 Colin.
One color in one color and three color on one which is this IP address.
The and you can see the ping succeeds.
Some able to ping from router 1 to router.
I could also do this source and specify the first ethernet interface on route one and you can see the
ping succeeds.
So it's as simple as that to set up or up.
I could also advertise a default route from router 1 to a T
so going on to the serial interface.
I can top that come on IPV 6.
The process name and then default information originate
to send a default dropped gravity on Ratatouille is writing table so show IPV six route
notice here.
I'm getting a default route the default route is represented by colon on for Slash 0.
Notice the administrative distance of rape in G is still 120 and we still have a hop count.
In this case of T.
Notice she has an example looking at the route from router 1.
So this route here is the rat on.
Ethan It's 0 1 1 one notice we are learning it to Vire not to this address but via the link local address
on router 1.
So going on to Route 1 is an example show IPV 6 interface serials 0 0 notice the link local addresses.
If 80 C 600 and so forth which is the address here link local addresses are used by writing protocols
to ever type routes to one another.
These addresses are not being used by the routing protocols to advertise the rats other commands I can
type or for instance show IP V-6 rep which shows me information about Ripp you can see for instance
which interfaces Ripper's enabled on.
You can see it's administrative distance max number of pause that it supports 16 in this case Edmon
distances 120.
You can see the multicast group which if you remember back to Activision Foy's 2 2 4 0 0 9.
So something similar here if if 0 2 color and color 9 of information very similar to Version 4 is for
instance updates are sent every 30 seconds so they expire off 180 seconds.
We still have split horizon.
We still have poison reverse and we still have hold on timers.
I can see just a rip gruts in the writing table by tapping the C'mon show IPV 6 frocked repr and you
can see my two routes on Route 2.
We are learning a default dropped from router 1 and we are learning about this network which is this
one over here both by the linked local address of serial 0 0 on router 1.
Now lets configure OSPF on these routers so in global config mode I can type IPV 6 Varada OSPF and specify
process idea of let's say 1.
Notice what it says OSPF version 3 Crossus one could not pick a router ID even though this is OSPF version
3.
In other words OSPF IP version 6.
It requires a router ID in IP version 4 format.
So I'm going to put that in as quadruple one.
You need to go to the interfaces to put them into the various areas.
So I'm going to type IP V-6 OSPF pro-ISIS ID is one specified area.
In this case I'll specify area 1 on the serial interface.
I'll put that into areas.
We need to do the same thing on router.
So IP B-6 router always IPF let's just make this process to give it Arata ID quadruple to go into the
first definity interface.
ITV 6 OSPF to in other words a process ID.
And let's put this into area to go into the Ciril interface and let's put that into area zero.
So hopefully we should form a neighbor relationship.
And as you can see it's taking place.
The relationship has gone to full.
So hopefully we should get Drats from Route 1 so show IPV 6 Berat notice here we have received an OSPF
in to area route from router 1 telling us about this network notices no one at the end here because
that is a network address not a host address.
So on Route 1 let's create credit loopback interface so give it an IP V-6 address of let's say 2002.
Carl uncolored one slash 64 put that into OSPF area one member commodity.
It's a new look at V.F. rocks.
And here you go.
We have now learnt about the loop back on Route 1 through OSPF and it's displayed in the writing table
of rockety.
I could ping 2002 Karl and one or other call and call on one.
And as you can see they the ping is successful.
It's as simple as that to set up a version 3.
In other words OSPF the IP version 6 that's important to realize that we are only running IP version
6 on these routers for example I type show IP route.
You'll notice there are no routes on Route 1 and on route to the writing table displays in the same
way that there are no rats there are no IP version 4 addresses configured on these routers.
So nothing gets displayed in the writing table.
It is possible to run both protocols at the same time.
So on router 2 on the serial interface lets configure an IP address of 201 2.0
and now if our top show IP route noticed that route appears in the writing table on Route 1 there are
still no rocks because no provision for addresses have been configured on the serial Zerah interface.
I could do something like IP address 10 1 to 1 with a mosque.
And now the writing table will display that grot.
So I could ping 10 1 to 2 which is the IP address of router 2.
All I could ping 2001 Colan one Cullin one Kurland to tell uncurl on T which is the IP version 6 address
of router.
I could also for instance trying to telnet to the router
and as you can see its his password required but Nunspeet
not can do the same in version 6 so in Ratatouille let's create a Viti y password password.
Cisco Creadon enabled password of Cisco.
And now let's try and telnet from Rotto want to write it to using division 6.
And as you can see here we are able to tell that successfully and get an IP version 4.
Notice we are able to telnet successfully.
In other words both protocols can be run at the same time running side by side.
This is known once again as running a dual stack.
Both the provision for stack and the IP version 6 stack are running side by side.
You can also clear the OSPF process in a similar fashion to Activision for you just literally taught
clear IPV 6 OSPF crossest.
And that clears the OSPF processes.
You can see the neighbor relationship was torn down and then re-established.
So a lot of the concepts are very similar between IP version for an IP version 6.
Another example of a command that's very similar in IP version 6 as an IP version 4 is you can do the
come on ITV six hostname and not specify a hostname let's say or two.
And then I can specify its address.
So now I've got ping are to do that again.
Notice the ping succeeds let's look at some of the vision for kabillion six transition mechanisms.
There is fortunately transition richness.
In other words there is no fixed date to convert.
This is not like Y2K where the whole world was supposedly going to fall apart at the end of 1999.
There's no need for all of us to convert at once.
However this is becoming very important.
As I mentioned earlier as I'm recording this a week ago the available IP version for address space was
exhausted.
So it's becoming critical now for businesses to look at ways to transition to IP version 6.
There are multiple transition mechanisms available.
The first one is what's called Running a jewel stack where you run both IP version for an IP version
6 at the same time on a single host.
So this MacBook for example has an IP version for address as well as an IP version 6 address.
But in the Mac Pokhran is communicating to the server it can use my provision for.
But when communicating to this server it can use IP version 6.
So this is the typical analogy where a person can speak two languages and as an analogy would speak
English to one server and French to another server.
But in this case IPV for the server that only runs IPV for an IP V-6 to the server that only runs IP
version 6.
A lot of operating systems support this.
There's an example in Windows I can bring 170 I can ping 127 0 0 1 the loopback an IP version for once
again I can thing the loop back in IP version 6 this Windows machine supports both protocols and in
this case based on the address the specific protocol is chosen.
So this example we're looking at an IP version 4 protocols stack and this example the application being
used only supports IP version 4.
So when data is sent from the application layer down to the physical layer the application will choose
whether it's using TZP UDP layer 4.
It would then use the provision for protocol stack at least three at least two that Ethernet type would
be set to zero.
X 800.
If this is an Ethernet to frame that would then be forwarded across the physical media in this case
Ethernet.
If an application supports both IP version for an IP version 6 the application may choose either TZP
to UDP depending on how it's been programmed.
And then the protocol stack 3 would be chosen.
Are we using IP version code or are we using IP version 6.
So the choice of particle stack would be determined by for instance the destination IP address that
we going to or by using a DNS server that determines which protocol stack is used.
The application programming interface or API of the application needs to be able to handle IP version
6 formatted addresses.
So as I've shown you previously in HGP the IP version 6 address would have to be put in brackets.
So the application would need to be able to handle those address formats for example the infinite type
would then be chosen once again if it's version 4 of IP the Senate type would be set to 0 x 800.
But if it's IP version 6 the ethernet type would be set to 0 x 8 6.
DD That would then be forwarded across the physical medium.
So when data is sent from an application let's say Internet Explorer depending on various parameters.
For example the role that you specified the browser the data would be sent across the IP version 6 stack
all across the IP version 4 stack down to the physical medium and other transition mechanism is to use
tunneling.
In this example we have a host on the left hand side that is running IP version 6 on the right hand
side the server is running IP version 6 but the rod is connected by an IP version for only network so
IP version 6 addresses will not be routed by this infrastructure.
So what you can do is you can set up a tunnel between router 1 and router two to tunnel IP version 6
over IP version 4.
There are multiple ways to do this you can either use manual tunneling or dynamic Sixty-Four tunneling
or intra site or a medic tunnel addressing protocol will last.
You can use to RIDO tunneling.
Now let's look at each of those in more depth.
See as an example of tunneling IP version 6 packets over not be vision for infrastructure.
The Mac book on the left hand side since IP version 6 data inside of an IP version 6 header to its default
gateway which is let's say router one router one will then take the IP version 6 information and encapsulated
inside IP version for a tunnel is set up from the local provision for address of router one to the remote
IP address on rabbity.
So please note this is an extra IP header.
In other words an IP version for header is prepended to the front of the IP version 6 header encapsulates
the IP version 6 information.
So Rod is in the provision for infrastructure.
Never see the IP version 6 header.
They only see the provision for header not shown more detail.
The provision for header I've shown you the source and destination addresses.
But this is part of the same header when the packet gets routed to the IP version for headers are stripped
off and the packet is sent on the remote LAN as a pure IP version 6 packet.
Now when setting up tunneling it's important remember that the protocol type is 41.
So the IP version 6 packet is encapsulated within IP version 4.
And when Activision for encapsulates that IP version 6 packet a protocol type of 41 is specified in
IP version 4 header TCAP for example has a protocol type of 6 and UDP protocol type of 17.
And in this case IP version 6 is set to protocol clapt 41.
The head is 20 bytes in size.
When there are no options this can cause some problems.
The maximum transmission unit between our two hosts the MacBook and the server is reduced by 20 bytes
because of this additional header can be difficult to troubleshoot issues with tunneling as an example.
The rod is in the cloud could be blocking protocol 41 and we need to be changed to allow that traffic
through in manual tunneling you are mentally establishing the tunnel between router 1 and router 2 and
I'm going to demonstrate how to do that a little bit later with dynamic 64 tunneling that tunnel is
automatically established between the IP B-6 networks through the IP version for network presenting
of source and destination IP version 4 addresses is not required for these automatic tunnel's automatic
prefix assignment is way one aggregated global unit cost IPV 6 prefix is assigned to each Sixty-Four
site and these are based on the specific address 2002.
Colon colon slash 16 is signed by the ANA.